(chore) align React and Vue docs; align prop/param descriptions (#1814)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/references/react/use-clerk.mdx

---
title: '`useClerk()`'
description: Access and manage the Clerk object in your React application with Clerk's useClerk() hook.
---

> [!WARNING]
> This composable should only be used for advanced use cases, such as building a completely custom OAuth flow or as an escape hatch to access to the `Clerk` object.

The `useClerk()` hook provides access to the [`Clerk`](/docs/references/javascript/clerk/clerk) object, allowing you to build alternatives to any Clerk Component.

## Returns

The `useClerk()` hook returns the `Clerk` object, which includes all the methods and properties listed in the [`Clerk` reference](/docs/references/javascript/clerk/clerk).

## How to use the `useClerk()` hook

> ```tsx {{ filename: 'src/Home.tsx' }}

Author: Yes, will do!

> ```tsx {{ filename: 'src/Home.tsx' }}

Author: https://github.com/clerk/clerk-docs/pull/1814/commits/68a0e44899320a4c33331a7465db40f1fa4ff7af

---
title: '`useClerk()`'
description: Access and manage the Clerk object in your React application with Clerk's useClerk() hook.
---

> [!WARNING]
> This composable should only be used for advanced use cases, such as building a completely custom OAuth flow or as an escape hatch to access to the `Clerk` object.

The `useClerk()` hook provides access to the [`Clerk`](/docs/references/javascript/clerk/clerk) object, allowing you to build alternatives to any Clerk Component.

## Returns

The `useClerk()` hook returns the `Clerk` object, which includes all the methods and properties listed in the [`Clerk` reference](/docs/references/javascript/clerk/clerk).

## How to use the `useClerk()` hook

> The following example demonstrates how to use the `useClerk()` hook to open the sign-in modal. The `clerk` object is used to call the [`openSignIn()`](/docs/references/javascript/clerk/clerk#opensignin) method to open the sign-in modal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example uses the `useClerk()` hook to access the `clerk` object. The `clerk` object is used to call the [`openSignIn()`](/docs/references/javascript/clerk/clerk#sign-in) method to open the sign-in modal.
```
